---
layout: post
title:  "[summary] interview with 0pn"
date:   2015-11-16 21:37:22 +0200
categories: summary music
---
...a way of me being honest with myself about stuff. I need my "art work" or "entertainment work" or whatever to have empathy for or connection to the way I experience the world as a person. I have a hard time making a linear-idea song, because that's not the way my thoughts work.

...I think I do all this cool shit but to the average celebrity I'm at best a magician or clown. Then again you just totally complimented me on seeming wantless, which I didn't notice because I was so busy feeling humiliated. Is that something you want for yourself, to be wantless? Like a chill object floating in space?...

...I'm materialistic but in the name of distracting myself to death. I really don't care if anyone thinks I'm special or not, I just want to be able to live my life without thinking about money all the time, or where I'm going to get it.

...you are looking to make music that will "grow with you as you get older" rather than music geared to a "get addicted to it and throw it away" mentality.

...I'm hurt by music all the time. I'm hurt pretty much every time I turn on Vevo. I can love formal aspects of music without any kind of emotional commitment so it's not like bad songwriting or bad arrangement or production hurts me. It's the bullshit around music that hurts me. My friend Arthur (Autre Ne Veut), the whole conceit of his new record is that we're all dying to buy into the performance of honesty. We'll pay money to see an artist say something in earnest.

...it's just that most celebrities' idea of honesty is so tedious. They're asking "why" a lot and then crying.

[http://www.vice.com/read/fuck-music-lets-talk-about-feelings-an-interview-with-oneohtrix-point-never](http://www.vice.com/read/fuck-music-lets-talk-about-feelings-an-interview-with-oneohtrix-point-never)