---
layout: post
title:  "{summary} interview with autechre 3"
date:   2016-06-11 15:04:08 +0200
categories: summary music
---
**So you say the studio takes up most of your time. How is that for you? Is it gruelling, or enjoyable?**

Sean Booth: Oh, I'm one of those weird guys who'd do it anyway.

Rob Brown: It's definitely habit forming.

Sean Booth: It's fully addictive. If I have a choice of going out or staying in and doing some patching, I'll almost always choose staying in unless I'm under a lot of pressure to go out. Takes quite a lot to get me out of here. I mean, I'm not socially that bad, but I just really, really like making music. I don't have to make any effort to get stuck in here. If I did I'd probably get a teaching job or something because I'd need something else in life, but I don't!

**You even enjoy it if it's just experimenting with software and you haven't got anything resembling a track?**

Sean Booth: I'll be totally honest, there's parts of what we do that are really fucking irritating. If I'm trying to build something and it's not working but I can't work out what the bug is, and I spend a month debugging it—that's not that unusual—then I'll be really fucking banging my head against a brick wall for a month. It's a horrible feeling. But what you get at the end of it, when you've solved the problem and finally figured out that stupid mistake you made five weeks ago that you could easily have avoided—well, we're back to learning. You've immediately learned. If I could do it and not have that, ever, it would be better, though. But I'm happy with it, warts and all. And when it is working, it's all set up, then doing tracks on it... well, there's nothing like it. It's amazing. So it's a compulsion, I suppose. I don't see that as being gruelling. It's really invigorating, and whatever the opposite of gruelling is— life affirming!

...if you're doing art, you have to consider the medium a lot. With this store thing that we've constructed, we wanted to be conscious of what it was and how it worked, because if we were just flinging albums up on there it would be a meaningless thing. There is a set of liberties that you can exploit if you've got that facility. I mean, I've been following various kids on SoundCloud and they'll upload 50 tracks in a day. No artist in any other context would do this, but on SoundCloud nobody's there to tell them that this is wrong. We also quite like the chapters thing, like you have if you're doing marathon TV watching. Like, if I'm watching some big mainstream show like Game Of Thrones, I'll watch four or five of them in a row on a Sunday afternoon—and that's no longer weird for people to do that. So I guess we're making music for people who'll do things like that, who want to be completist and check out the whole of a thing.

[https://www.residentadvisor.net/features/2756](https://www.residentadvisor.net/features/2756)