---
layout: post
title:  "{summary} interview with aaron oppenheim"
date:   2016-08-17 20:06:28 +0200
categories: summary music
---
...I do not use any MIDI controllers or anything. Early at Mills I made that decision inspired by Ikue Mori’s setup. She visited in my first or second week at Mills, and talked about her stuff. She does not use controllers because it is just simpler and more portable. If you are carrying around a MIDI keyboard every time you play a gig, it is another thing to take with you, it is another thing to break, you can lose it or you just forget to bring it or something like that. What do you do? You cannot play. So many people who do live computer music their systems crash, computers crash, something is not working right, things like that. The more peripherals you add the more likely you will have a technical issue. So I just decided to not have any peripherals and just use the laptop. My controls are all the computer keyboard.

...the other thing about laptop improvisation is that you are building your instrument at the same time as you are learning to play it. When I was starting out I would add some functionality but then I would have to learn to play that in a musical way. Not only was my system not very well thought out, well programmed or finished, I also was not good at playing it at the beginning. It took a while to develop some ability and remember how to do things and have everything available without having to think about it, that was another thing. It was important to make it easy to start to make a sound so that I would not have to think about it, if you have to think about it before making sound then you lose the intuition, really quick responses and the kind of dialogue you can have when you have this immediate ability to do something. It was also a matter of just practice and playing and learning the instrument that I made and its capabilities.

...Originally I actually wanted to do more synthesis because I like synthesis and also when I was thinking about the aesthetics of electronic music I was like, “what is the point of using samples because it will just sound like something else. It can sound like another instrument but I could always just get someone else to play that instrument. Why should my computer sound like a piano, it should sound like a computer so I will do synthesis, it is electronic not an acoustic instrument”. In doing that I found my sound very limited and it was hard to shift very quickly. Just changing the bottom of the chain into samples allowed me to switch really fast into something else. Then by just applying a lot of processes and the granulation it still sounds very electronic, you would not confuse my stuff for an actual piano even if I am playing a piano sample because I will do a lot of things to it and it does not sound anything like the original.

...I am always back and forth on whether or not I like doing live sampling but I do do it. Sometimes I do not like the way other people do that, I feel like it can be a kind of easy cheap effect and sometimes musicians do not like it if you sample them while they are playing, if they can tell you are doing that it will confuse them. It has happened to me several times where I have sampled someone and shifted them or something and if they can tell they are being sampled it will snap them out of what they are doing a lot of the time. If I am sampling live I will want to manipulate it so that it creates this responsive sound and it is not clear that it is from them directly because if it is just sort of echoing them, following along or whatever it often really confuses them. Also my feeling is if I am just sampling them and affecting them I am just an effect pedal. What is the point of me being there?

...It is definitely related to science. That was always a criticism that people made of Alvin Lucier that it was not really music it was just science experiments or something which I thought was really stupid. But it is true that in his stuff especially, there is this element that is so minimal and he has such clear process based music. He has a very musical sense and he knows what he is doing, he came to Mills one year, I spent quite a bit of time with him and he thinks musically he does not think in terms of science, he does these literally experimental pieces and process pieces because he thinks it will have a musical effect not because he thinks it will be cool. He thinks it will sound nice, interesting.

[http://experinautas.com/interviews/aaron-oppenheim-laptop-based-improvisation/](http://experinautas.com/interviews/aaron-oppenheim-laptop-based-improvisation/)