---
layout: post
title:  "{summary} interview with keith fullerton whitman"
date:   2016-04-09 14:47:17 +0200
categories: summary music
---
...I got caught in that void of not really making music while I was learning the ins and outs of modular synthesis. It’s like building a jigsaw puzzle before you can appreciate the picture. I finished that rack in about 2001 or 2002, and then I started spending more time making music on that than the computer. You can stand at the modular and all it does is make sound. What a beautiful thing that is. No diversions, no Facebook, no email. That’s it. It only exists in its own world to make sound. There’s a morning like today, where I don’t want to face the world or get on the internet, so I turn on the modular and by the end of the day I’ll have five minutes of cool sounds.

**...In the modular world it seems like there’s a lot of focus on the instrument itself rather than on what sort of music comes out of it.**

Totally. A lot of this gear-heavy talk is a product of gear-heavy music. It’s not necessarily always a good thing. The best music always transcends technique and whatever system you’re using. I get a lot of people sending me demos while I’m traveling, and a lot of it sounds like “I just got a modular,” and they give me one hundred copies of a CD. That’s cool, but I busted my ass for 15 years before I even thought about putting out a record. It’s weird now that it’s sped up to the point where within a week of getting an instrument, you’re expected to know how it works and then do something substantive with it. So there’s just so much straight up noise out there. People don’t even figure out the basic idea of what a thing does before they start something with it.

[https://www.ableton.com/en/blog/keith-fullerton-whitman/](https://www.ableton.com/en/blog/keith-fullerton-whitman/)