---
layout: post
title:  "{summary} interview with mark fell"
date:   2016-09-30 13:04:16 +0200
categories: summary music
---
...I’ve always made a lot of stuff, but I’m quite self-critical and so for a long time, the vast majority of what I did I never actually released. It was almost private experiments. And then I just thought, ‘this is really stupid, I really ought to get it out there’, so I just decided to focus on actually consolidating what I’d done and make a CD of it.

...For us, there’s music and the music world. I’m more interested in music than the music world, if you see what I mean. It might appear like there’s a six year gap, but it’s only a six year public gap. For all that time, constantly we were working on things, and music and making music. We were as active as we’ve ever been, it’s just we never put anything in the public domain. For a lot of musicians and people making music, music producers, there’s an emphasis, like success or progress is kind of equated with how many releases you’re doing, how many gigs you’re doing. I think, for me, it was quite a liberating thing to realise that you don’t have to do that. There’s a difference between making music and the music world. So my concern was to make progress in the music rather than make progress as an artist with a career. Obviously, the two are connected, it’s not like one happens in a vacuum, but I think you can have differences of emphasis.

...I’ve seen a lot people that started off really good, and then started to play live and got sucked into this dynamic of just giving the audience a good time, so the music starts off really interesting, but then five years down the line, after five years of live shows, they’re just making really banal kind of party music. And that’s not really what I wanted to do. I think that as well, around the time, I did the DVD project Attack On Silence for Richard [Chartier]’s label [Line], which was very long, it’s incredibly boring. And also as a performer, all I had to do on stage was press one button every three or four minutes. So it’s kind of like a personal challenge to see if I could do as little as possible on stage, and it was like an exercise of trying to resist the temptation to do more and more and more stuff on stage, to be more and more active on stage.

...Around that time both Mat and I made a definite decision never to nod our heads on stage in time to music. When we first started doing it, you kind of get into it, you start nodding your head, and it is a bit of a signal to the audience that the performers are enjoying it. But what’s going on in that kind of relationship? It’s like prompting the audience to respond in a certain way, or to have some assumptions about how we’re relating to the music. So yeah, since that point, neither of us have nodded our heads on stage in time to music. [laughs]

...I was at art college at the time that all the Sheffield scene was kind of happening, and the art college group of people were very much a part of it. So I’d go along to those nights, the early Warp – people like Winston Hazel who was in Forgemasters, still is in Forgemasters. So I’d go along to all that stuff, but I never drank alcohol or smoked cigarettes or took drugs, so I was the clean living one. So for me it was always like, I was there, but I could never really get into the total ‘off your face, going for it’ kind of dance type vibe. So I was stood at the side of the dancefloor, just listening to the music. Although I was quite involved in that scene as an audience member, I always felt quite removed from it. In my experience, the scene started to go wrong when people started to have way too many drugs and people started having nervous breakdowns and things. I guess the music I make now is still somehow related to that kind of critical attitude. On the one hand, really being into it. On the other hand, really being quite critical of how that can go wrong.

...you know you can chop the bar into 16ths? Like the hi-hat will be like 16 of those in a bar? Instead of looping it over 16, I might loop it over 13 or 15. But what’s interesting is using those time signatures with relatively normal sounds, like kick drums, some nice lush chords and vocal sample, you can get away with it, and it doesn’t sound weird or abstract. But what’s actually good about doing that is you can create rhythms that have certain tensions within parts of the loop, which would otherwise be difficult to achieve or perhaps impossible, if you just stuck to a regular four/four structure. Often when you’re doing a loop, it’s like, ‘oh, if only I had a little bit more time at the end of the loop just to put this other thing in’, so it’s kind of like you run out of space or you have too much space.

[http://daily.redbullmusicacademy.com/2012/05/mark-fell-interview](http://daily.redbullmusicacademy.com/2012/05/mark-fell-interview)